all
right Bend programming
language we're doing Bend programming
language Bend programming language all
right oh
wait U probably need to rust up I don't
want this to take long I don't give a
bro what
rust up
ad you know I don't
remember oh is that what it is I'm
pretty sure it's Plus tool
chain no I think that decides what tool
chain to
use there we go rust up tool chain
install see I I shouldn't have to
remember that it's actually
great H love beans
I
beans
okay R up default nightly I need to run
that do I need to run that I'll run
that wait
nightly oh yeah I missed that first part
hvm is
mostly it's mostly C and Cuda that's
pretty
interesting yo C is
the and what is Bend mostly written in
Bend's just a rust
thing I wonder what their dependencies
are oh I hate the wait no oh there we go
nice
clap is this a part
sir nice I knew
it oh whoa they wrote it
dude I never really got into the parsing
I just wanted it
done huh
but yeah not interesting okay not not
for me right now it's not not
hitting
so oh wait I already had it in my thing
when is that desktop app coming out bro
I want that desktop
app okay so what's the next step
oh yeah hold on we're going to do
uh we can just write a
program oh it did it all for me that's
actually
crazy l
whatever we'll
wait this is so
sick I love clap too okay
so uh Matt
mend oh wait
oh wait even the parser thought it was
python that's actually pretty
interesting yeah but that's yeah it's
just not going to work all right then
what do I
do Bend run I want to do I want to do
the emit I want to I want to see what
kind of C code it generates because that
that is pretty
crazy h
F the
range yeah it's not going to
work wait what is it even trying to do
damn I thought it'd be smarter it's kind
of an
L should I try another AI I don't really
want to write this because I don't know
how to do it but I don't
really but that's definitely not right
in nested
fold no you you should be able to do a
nested
fold expected a comma got
nothing well if that one didn't work
then why did this one
work try give up
get a jacket
maybe okay fine before we even try to
compile this can we just return a I just
want a program that
works
oh I love beans
I've been trying to get geeked all
night oh wait did I even start yeah okay
I'm
good I've been trying to get geeked all
night
oh I love reading these
though this is not interesting but
this none of this looks that cool all
right so let's see what the hell do we
have going on
here definition
zip
okay
so I just give it the
air I love
beans wait does nested list even work we
got to try
that oh what happened to my python
syntax
highlighting whatever do I get
syntax all right let's just say it's
python
okay what happens
now so you can't
match is tupal even a thing
bro where is it it's in Mad mall I don't
give a MMO bro I just want to
return
a oh wait I don't know oh that is
probably that's probably a
comment match
row wait
in
oh do we have tle D structuring we
probably do what language wouldn't
let's try
that H bro what the
hell
huh where's the docks Bend Lang
docks it's not what I want there's got
to be
documentation so where is this on maybe
it is that
actually see this isn't what
I this is not what I
wanted should we go through the hacker
news I've divulged into total
dumbass
land
uh
e for
okay so what's up with the pattern
matching can I read
the uh okay wait
um dude I want that desktop app
bro like lazy ass
that's that's dumb as
okay yeah let's do
that how hard is dot product
okay
so clearly you
can't Tuple
match dude I'm surprised they didn't
even start out with a M
mle oh
sick okay there we go
all right should we do
it expected statement detected death
what even
happened does nested list nested list
definitely work
do I have Hello
co-pilot dude who the ever disabled
that wait what oh I'm in restricted mode
I can't do it in restricted
mode okay let's get some
cool stuff happen
okay all right so's just try to do
get what is it just takes two things
yeah column A Zer that sounds
good okay let me just see that this
works I thought we did this already okay
so nested list work that's fine and then
the dot product where's the main of the
dot product this
worked
so
uh okay but
uh get column is
busted
um there's no like
um I mean yeah obviously the tooling is
going to be total garbage but
uh okay I just want to make sure that
this
[Music]
oh
whatever
return this
works there's no
print sad I'm pretty sure there's no
print print D there's no standard
there's no
IO so anyways so we can take the dot
product uh is there a random function
they need to document this language
bro oh wait here we
go who's this guy
get a cons
is tupal even a
thing okay so tupal are a thing we
return C let's see what's up with that
oh
wait okay so something is
[Music]
busto oh that's weird what the
wait what what did anyone else just
see that the was
that maybe it's just
autosave okay we're all
good so um
okay I'm just going to say
this clearly there are docks
though do you have to use a
fold how do you do a get index okay wait
is that already a thing actually
okay
what turn
none
uh uh there's no
none can I just do this
all
right ha made it one index
okay so get
call oh get
column oh is this like a list append
issue what is the issue
here get
column is it taking n
yeah so what happened
wait is that
okay wait Matt Mo
row can you do nested deaths I don't
even know if that works
what
happens yeah I don't think you can do
nested
definitions so wait so get column works
I guess
is it going to keep my thank
God all right let's try this
case list as
wait should I get Gemini Pro for the
long context I just want a Matt
mole bro I don't give
a oh range probably doesn't exist
okay so range doesn't exist
no bro nested deaths don't work in this
language maybe I should uh
conditionals don't exist that's not
true
oh uh is that true
man I thought I saw the docs that there
was a list of operators or it was in the
paper
maybe
uh is
it wait
they here we go this is what I was
looking
for The Operators were in
here let me read it
I could have sworn that there was a a
thing
okay is there an
ore all right fine is there an is equal
oh yeah
okay let's see if this
works
or I equal equal to n
Len Len is not a thing
bro
uh oh is that going to mess with
one indexing in might okay Len doesn't
exist either I don't even know if I'm
getting closer I someone smarter than me
could definitely write a uh
if this compiles I'll be like
crazy
oh I've been trying to get geek dude oh
cuz I didn't tell him
that does ore work I doubt
it oh no
way wait actually wait I want to
run yeah that that definitely won't
work let me look at my utilization
damn yeah that's not
right how do I do a at
Mo can someone please show
me I bet if I complain about this um
wait should I check the
Discord um Matt
mul there's no way
that yeah this language is so immature
that idiots like me you can't really
I'm not going to make this issue
but all right let's just see if range
Works range has got to work there's no
way anyone could that
up
what that's not
even what the freakyy freak
what the
freck all right maybe I'll just
we should definitely make a Jupiter
notebook
though um
okay what the
freck what the freak
man dude what is going
on that is stupid as
hell if you comment it out it's the same
oh dude what
so
weird yeah it's so
weird
for e
pap
dude I wish they had a
repple oh wait this is hvm I want to
bend
libraries definitely
uh and then what did I want to
do oh
yeah
repple wait is there already
dude presumably I could make
this if I just type Bend no it no yeah
okay I mean the library can't even be
that hard it's probably one file please
no it's way more than that but what I
want to know
is um
there's definitely just like a run
function wait you know what I could do I
could look
at this is
probably the CLI
okay so what does run
do
okay so that's what I want you know what
we should clone this
how hard would it be to write a rusty
line I'm surprised they didn't even make
one
honestly I'm getting kind of hungry
though how long have I been doing this
30 minutes
D why is there
no fusing
ad associate configure Association
python oh wait uh no see cuz they're
using that other
to
church I want the actual user
here okay
okay fine so what are we doing
here give up on the map mall and try to
find where
run gets
I'm just going to say
add add a mode that uses Rusty
line I love Rusty
line for
it's going to be a little harder than
that
though like I want it to be basically
just run
the I at least want to ask about a
repple
anyway so we'll finish the mapo
later I still think this was a pretty
good intro to
bend I mean I I didn't go through how
any of it works but
like dude I think Bend is so cool I
don't I don't really care
about I just love that you make a big
ass graph and then
doing this rewrite that terminates is
like like the wol graph stuff is like
all right let's build a graph from small
starting conditions this is like you
build this big ass graph as representing
your
program and then you just reduce it
[Music]
down I wish you could
render a program to a graph
dude their logos are so sick Bro higher
order Co dude this thing is so
beautiful oh whoever made that bro
dude this is so sick
no is that the real thing
dude oh my God their their marketing is
so good
oh my God this is so
sick
dude this is crazy I love this video I
actually want to
like dude their art is so good man
this thing but
honestly this video is
masterful is that the real thing I don't
know I'm getting pretty hungry
oh graphic export
okay what did he
say for
dude this is such a good
video holy
okay
um should I try something
else I going to ask
dude I Docker is one of those
things where I'm like not bro I don't
need that
I never run anything real
though all right so there's a lot to do
clearly but it would be wait execute CLI
mode what is this
what is a
mode oh check oh wow there's already
some
tooling wait can I can I do that I want
to see what one of these things looks
like all right so let's go to F see
examples
Bend Bend
um gen
C uh
FIB oh yeah
uh FIB Dy okay that's what we
wanted dude this is crazy
what the
hell what the is this dude this is
crazy for
oh Atomic pair
for
for for
w
turn
okay that's it that's a that tour of uh
Bend language